Telecom Churning

Business Objective

To predict the users churn in the last (i.e. the ninth) month using the data (features) from the first three months.
Three phases of the customer lifecycle,
The ‘good’ phase: In this phase, the customer is happy with the service and behaves as usual.
The ‘action’ phase: The customer experience starts to sore in this phase, for e.g. he/she gets a compelling offer from a competitor, faces unjust charges, becomes unhappy with service quality etc. In this phase, the customer usually shows different behaviour than in the ‘good’ months. Also, it is crucial to identify high-churn-risk customers in this phase, since some corrective actions can be taken at this point (such as matching the competitor’s offer/improving the service quality etc.)
The ‘churn’ phase: In this phase, the customer is said to have churned.


Revenue-based churn: 
Customers who have not utilised any revenue-generating facilities such as mobile internet, outgoing calls, SMS etc. over a given period of time. 
One could also use aggregate metrics such as ‘customers who have generated less than INR 4 per month in total/average/median revenue.

The main shortcoming of this definition is that there are customers who only receive calls/SMSes from their wage-earning counterparts,i.e. they don’t generate revenue but use the services.
For example, many users in rural areas only receive calls from their wage-earning siblings in urban areas.

Usage-based churn: 
Customers who have not done any usage, either incoming or outgoing - in terms of calls, internet etc. over a period of time.

High-value churn
In the Indian and Southeast Asian markets, approximately 80% of revenue comes from the top 20% of customers (called high-value customers). Thus, if we can reduce the churn of high-value customers, we will be able to reduce significant revenue leakage.

Data preparation

The following data preparation steps are crucial for this problem:

1. Filter high-value customers
As mentioned above, you need to predict churn only for high-value customers. Define high-value customers as follows: Those who have recharged with an amount more than or equal to X, where X is the 70th percentile of the average recharge amount in the first two months (the good phase).
After filtering the high-value customers, you should get about 30k rows.

2. Tag churners and remove attributes of the churn phase
Now tag the churned customers (churn=1, else 0) based on the fourth month as follows: Those who have not made any calls (either incoming or outgoing) AND have not used mobile internet even once in the churn phase. The attributes you need to use to tag churners are:
total_ic_mou_9
total_og_mou_9
vol_2g_mb_9
vol_3g_mb_9
After tagging churners, remove all the attributes corresponding to the churn phase (all attributes having ‘ _9’, etc. in their names).

Modelling the Data and predicting the Churn Rate most affecting features.
